----------HOMEWORK 2----------
-  Why is it necessary to isolate Virtual Machines from each other?
Each virtual machine has its own processes that are unique and handled by the
OS on each VM. Not isolating the VMs would cause data corruption and
inefficiencies in addition to security issues.

-  Why it is necessary to support unmodified application binaries in Xen?
So you can support and run many different applications on different
OSs with the XEN hypervisor. This would encourage people to develop once
and run it on XEN.

-  Explain the differences between full virtualization & paravirtualization?
Full virtualization is defined as when the guest OS does not know it is
running on another OS.
Paravirtualization is defined as when the guest OS knows that it runs
on a layer on top of the existing OS on the hardware. This implies
that the guest OS cannot directly issue hardware commands.

-  Xen uses an optimization technique of 'fast' exception handler to improve
performance of guest OS's system calls.
Explain in your own words how does this technique work.

Fast exception handlers in XEN works by XEN registering a page table of
each process directly with the underlying hardware. This decreases latency
as the guest OS doesn't have to go through XEN, but rather directly to
the hardware to execute hardware commands and system calls.

-  What is Domain0 in Xen?
Domain0 is the privileged state that XEN creates on boot to manage other domains.

-  Virtualizing CPU is difficult on x86 architecture
True. Full is impossible. Para is hard.

-  On x86 CPUs, zero is the least privileged level and three is the most privileged level
False. zero is the most priveleged, three is the least.

-  Hypercall is the mechanism used by guest domains to make a call into Xen
True

-  Hypercall is an asynchronous mechanism
False, it must be synchronous. The Guest OS has to manually make a call
for hypercall to happen.

-  There is no mechanism in Xen hypervisor similar to Unix Signal mechanism
False, Communications similar to Signal

----------HOMEWORK 3----------
